Hello, and welcome back to
the computer forensics path,
Course 7, Module 2.
In this module, we're
going to look at
live versus dead box
evidence collection.
This is collecting from
a live running machine
versus collecting from
a machine that is off.
Some of our considerations when
deciding whether to collect from
a live running machine or
go ahead and power down
the machine and do
a traditional dead box collection
would be volatile data,
specifically RAM,
random access memory.
Encryption; if
encryption is running,
we're going to want
to collect that live.
Our inability to shut
down the system;
some systems cannot be
shut down for one
reason or another.
We talked about the example of
a business with servers
that we cannot shut down.
The size of the data;
if we're dealing with big data,
we're going to be doing
a large collection,
and we talked about that
when we talked about
big data and the
challenges of big data.
Cloud storage, social media;
we would have to
access those accounts
through a live running computer
and capture that information
from the live machine.
Remember to stay within the
scope of your legal process.
Know what you have named
in your search warrant,
and make sure you stay
within those limitations.
This is the definition
of volatile data.
Basically, it's data
that goes away or
is eradicated when the
device powers down.
If the device loses power,
that information is gone.
That random access
memory is gone forever,
it's not going to come back when
you turn the machine back on.
Another way of defining it,
it could be the data that
is not written to disk.
Because remember, if you're
doing a dead box collection,
you're collecting
only the data that
has been written to the disk.
Examples would be RAM,
random access memory, which
I talked about before.
One thing to be aware of
with RAM is there are
certain malware that
will only run in RAM.
If we're doing an
incident response case
and we're looking
for that type of
malware and we don't
collect RAM and we
power down our machine,
we're going to lose
that information.
Certain registry keys
only exist in RAM.
Our list of running processes,
the processes that are currently
running on the machine,
and network connections,
the devices that are
connected to the network.
RAM, always collect RAM,
random access memory.
If a computer is on and you
have the ability to collect RAM,
you need to do so.
Modern computers
contain anywhere from
eight gigabytes of RAM up
to 96 gigabytes of RAM.
It is no longer acceptable
to not collect it.
You're going to be questioned
on why you didn't.
In an intrusion in
incident response cases,
RAM is essential.
These cases rely heavily on
random access memory because we
need to see the
network connections,
we need to see the
running processes when
we're doing these types
of investigations,
and we need to see any malware
that may only be
running in memory.
We can see on this
screenshot that
this particular machine
had 64 gigabytes of RAM,
and it's just a desktop computer.
You wouldn't leave a
64-gigabyte thumb drive
sitting on the desk,
you shouldn't leave 64
gigabytes of RAM behind.
There are many RAM
capture tools out there.
Here's a list of some of them.
Magnet has one, DumpIt,
Belkasoft, and FTK Imager is
capable of capturing RAM.
This is a screenshot of DumpIt,
very easy to use, very efficient.
One thing to consider,
it has a very small footprint
since it is a command-line tool.
If you're using a GUI tool,
graphical user interface tool,
it's going to leave a bigger
footprint on the system.
If you can use a
command-line tool,
you're better off because it will
leave a smaller footprint.
At the end of this module,
we'll show you a live
demonstration of DumpIt.
Encryption is another one of
the things we need to
consider when we're
deciding whether or not we're
going to do live imaging.
Encryption is defined
as the process of
randomizing data to
make it unreadable.
This is a way we secure our data
to prevent unauthorized access.
Encryption can be
applied to files,
containers, volumes, or disks.
You can have an encrypted
file, a container,
an entire volume or
full disk encryption.
A lot of operating systems
including Windows 10 and
the latest release of
Mac OSX have the capabilities
of encrypting any of
these or all of these.
We're going to look for
encryption and we
can see on the slide
the graphics show us
examples of encryption.
We're going to check
our taskbar and
our system tray and we're
going to see what is running.
If you see an icon like you
see on the very far right,
that is a BitLocker
encrypted drive.
We can also see an example
of cystine, PGP encryption,
and those other icons
are also showing you
indications of encryption.
If you have no indication
of encryption,
if you have a suspicion
I would go ahead and check
to see what's going on.
On a Windows system,
it's very easy,
if you look at the graphic
on the right here.
You are interacting and making
changes to the system
but document it.
Document use expected there
was encryption running
because you know in Windows
10 BitLocker is enabled.
Here we go to the bottom
in the Windows 10
and type in "bit",
you'll see the BitLocker
control panel.
You would go ahead and check
the BitLocker control panel.
When you open it up,
you're going to see
a graphics almost the one
we have on the screen.
We can see here that
BitLocker is turned off,
so you would know
that you had no BitLocker
drives up here,
but wait a second,
if we look at this
removable drive R,
BitLocker is turned on.
So we know volume
R is an encrypted volume
that right now is unlocked.
If I saw that,
I would want to go
ahead and live image,
logical volume R. Because
if I don't and I shut
this machine down,
I power it off,
BitLocker will kick in and I may
not be able to get
back into their drive.
This is going to be my only
shot at that evidence.
I'm going to go ahead and
create my live image,
I'm also going to go ahead
and back up the recovery key,
as you can see here on
the right-hand side.
We can save that
recovery key to a file,
now you're going to go
ahead and save that
out to your target media,
your destination drive,
where you're collecting
your evidence,
the same place you would put
your logical image of
the BitLocker R drive.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about
live imaging in
forensic boot media,
now we're going to do
a demo using DumpIt.
This is a live
demonstration of DumpIt.
DumpIt is a very simple program,
it is a command line program
which you can go ahead and
double-click on the Shortcut,
mine is right down
here in my taskbar.
If I double-click on that,
DumpIt is going to run.
Now, it's going to ask me
if I want to continue,
it's going to show me the size
of the memory that
I'm collecting,
and it's going to show me
where it is putting the files.
It's putting it at C Users
Denise desktop OneDrive,
and it's naming the file
the name of the computer,
a date and timestamp,
and it's called a.raw,
R-A-W will be the file extension.
I would simply hit the "Y"
and it starts working.
When it's completed
it is going to
save the file right here.
You can change that if you had
an external destination drive
that you are saving
all your evidence to.
You would go ahead and
save that file out there.
I'm not going to let
this run through
because there's quite a bit
of memory on this machine.
But I just wanted to give
you a quick look at DumpIt,
we will be using this
throughout the path.